examples/YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust/README.md, before:

# YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust for All the Key YOLO Tasks

This repository provides a Rust demo for performing YOLOv8 tasks like `Classification`, `Segmentation`, `Detection` and `Pose Detection` using ONNXRuntime.

## Features

- Support `Classification`, `Segmentation`, `Detection`, `Pose(Keypoints)-Detection` tasks.
- Support `FP16` & `FP32` ONNX models.
- Support `CPU`, `CUDA` and `TensorRT` execution provider to accelerate computation.
- Support dynamic input shapes(`batch`, `width`, `height`).

## Installation

### 1. Install Rust

Please follow the Rust official installation. (https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)

### 2. Install ONNXRuntime

This repository use `ort` crate, which is ONNXRuntime wrapper for Rust. (https://docs.rs/ort/latest/ort/)

You can follow the instruction with `ort` doc or simply do this:

- step1: Download ONNXRuntime(https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/releases)
- setp2: Set environment variable `PATH` for linking.

On ubuntu, You can do like this:

```bash
vim ~/.bashrc

# Add the path of ONNXRUntime lib
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/qweasd/Documents/onnxruntime-linux-x64-gpu-1.16.3/lib${LD_LIBRARY_PATH:+:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}}

source ~/.bashrc
```

### 3. \[Optional\] Install CUDA & CuDNN & TensorRT

- CUDA execution provider requires CUDA v11.6+.
- TensorRT execution provider requires CUDA v11.4+ and TensorRT v8.4+.

## Get Started

### 1. Export the YOLOv8 ONNX Models

```bash
pip install -U ultralytics

# export onnx model with dynamic shapes
yolo export model=yolov8m.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic
yolo export model=yolov8m-cls.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic
yolo export model=yolov8m-pose.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic
yolo export model=yolov8m-seg.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic


# export onnx model with constant shapes
yolo export model=yolov8m.pt format=onnx  simplify
yolo export model=yolov8m-cls.pt format=onnx  simplify
yolo export model=yolov8m-pose.pt format=onnx  simplify
yolo export model=yolov8m-seg.pt format=onnx  simplify
```

### 2. Run Inference

It will perform inference with the ONNX model on the source image.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--cuda` to use CUDA execution provider to speed up inference.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--trt` to use TensorRT execution provider, and you can set `--fp16` at the same time to use TensorRT FP16 engine.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --trt --fp16 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--device_id` to select which device to run. When you have only one GPU, and you set `device_id` to 1 will not cause program panic, the `ort` would automatically fall back to `CPU` EP.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --device_id 0 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--batch` to do multi-batch-size inference.

If you're using `--trt`, you can also set `--batch-min` and `--batch-max` to explicitly specify min/max/opt batch for dynamic batch input.(https://onnxruntime.ai/docs/execution-providers/TensorRT-ExecutionProvider.html#explicit-shape-range-for-dynamic-shape-input).(Note that the ONNX model should exported with dynamic shapes)

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --batch 2 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--height` and `--width` to do dynamic image size inference. (Note that the ONNX model should exported with dynamic shapes)

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --width 480 --height 640 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--profile` to check time consumed in each stage.(Note that the model usually needs to take 1~3 times dry run to warmup. Make sure to run enough times to evaluate the result.)

```bash
cargo run --release -- --trt --fp16 --profile --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Results: (yolov8m.onnx, batch=1, 3 times, trt, fp16, RTX 3060Ti)

```bash
==> 0
[Model Preprocess]: 12.75788ms
[ORT H2D]: 237.118µs
[ORT Inference]: 507.895469ms
[ORT D2H]: 191.655µs
[Model Inference]: 508.34589ms
[Model Postprocess]: 1.061122ms
==> 1
[Model Preprocess]: 13.658655ms
[ORT H2D]: 209.975µs
[ORT Inference]: 5.12372ms
[ORT D2H]: 182.389µs
[Model Inference]: 5.530022ms
[Model Postprocess]: 1.04851ms
==> 2
[Model Preprocess]: 12.475332ms
[ORT H2D]: 246.127µs
[ORT Inference]: 5.048432ms
[ORT D2H]: 187.117µs
[Model Inference]: 5.493119ms
[Model Postprocess]: 1.040906ms
```

And also:

`--conf`: confidence threshold \[default: 0.3\]

`--iou`: iou threshold in NMS \[default: 0.45\]

`--kconf`: confidence threshold of keypoint \[default: 0.55\]

`--plot`: plot inference result with random RGB color and save

you can check out all CLI arguments by:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics
cd ultralytics/examples/YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust
cargo run --release -- --help
```

## Examples

![Ultralytics YOLO Tasks](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultralytics/assets/main/im/banner-tasks.png)

### Classification

Running dynamic shape ONNX model on `CPU` with image size `--height 224 --width 224`. Saving plotted image in `runs` directory.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-cls-dyn.onnx --source ../assets/images/dog.jpg --height 224 --width 224 --plot --profile
```

You will see result like:

```bash
Summary:
> Task: Classify (Ultralytics 8.0.217)
> EP: Cpu
> Dtype: Float32
> Batch: 1 (Dynamic), Height: 224 (Dynamic), Width: 224 (Dynamic)
> nc: 1000 nk: 0, nm: 0, conf: 0.3, kconf: 0.55, iou: 0.45

[Model Preprocess]: 16.363477ms
[ORT H2D]: 50.722µs
[ORT Inference]: 16.295808ms
[ORT D2H]: 8.37µs
[Model Inference]: 16.367046ms
[Model Postprocess]: 3.527µs
[
    YOLOResult {
        Probs(top5): Some([(208, 0.6950566), (209, 0.13823675), (178, 0.04849795), (215, 0.019029364), (212, 0.016506357)]),
        Bboxes: None,
        Keypoints: None,
        Masks: None,
    },
]
```

### Object Detection

Using `CUDA` EP and dynamic image size `--height 640 --width 480`

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-dynamic.onnx --source ../assets/images/bus.jpg --plot --height 640 --width 480
```

### Pose Detection

using `TensorRT` EP

```bash
cargo run --release -- --trt --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-pose.onnx --source ../assets/images/bus.jpg --plot
```

### Instance Segmentation

using `TensorRT` EP and FP16 model `--fp16`

```bash
cargo run --release --  --trt --fp16 --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-seg.onnx --source ../assets/images/0172.jpg --plot
```

Commit message:

Update YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust README (#11773)
Co-authored-by: UltralyticsAssistant <web@ultralytics.com>
Co-authored-by: Glenn Jocher <glenn.jocher@ultralytics.com>

examples/YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust/README.md, after:

# YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust for All the Key YOLO Tasks

This repository provides a Rust demo for performing YOLOv8 tasks like `Classification`, `Segmentation`, `Detection`, `Pose Detection` and `OBB` using ONNXRuntime.

## Recently Updated

- Add YOLOv8-OBB demo
- Update ONNXRuntime to 1.17.x

Newly updated YOLOv8 example code is located in this repository (https://github.com/jamjamjon/usls/tree/main/examples/yolov8)

## Features

- Support `Classification`, `Segmentation`, `Detection`, `Pose(Keypoints)-Detection`, `OBB` tasks.
- Support `FP16` & `FP32` ONNX models.
- Support `CPU`, `CUDA` and `TensorRT` execution provider to accelerate computation.
- Support dynamic input shapes(`batch`, `width`, `height`).

## Installation

### 1. Install Rust

Please follow the Rust official installation. (https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)

### 2. Install ONNXRuntime

This repository use `ort` crate, which is ONNXRuntime wrapper for Rust. (https://docs.rs/ort/latest/ort/)

You can follow the instruction with `ort` doc or simply do this:

- step1: Download ONNXRuntime(https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/releases)
- setp2: Set environment variable `PATH` for linking.

On ubuntu, You can do like this:

```bash
vim ~/.bashrc

# Add the path of ONNXRUntime lib
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/qweasd/Documents/onnxruntime-linux-x64-gpu-1.16.3/lib${LD_LIBRARY_PATH:+:${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}}

source ~/.bashrc
```

### 3. \[Optional\] Install CUDA & CuDNN & TensorRT

- CUDA execution provider requires CUDA v11.6+.
- TensorRT execution provider requires CUDA v11.4+ and TensorRT v8.4+.

## Get Started

### 1. Export the YOLOv8 ONNX Models

```bash
pip install -U ultralytics

# export onnx model with dynamic shapes
yolo export model=yolov8m.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic
yolo export model=yolov8m-cls.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic
yolo export model=yolov8m-pose.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic
yolo export model=yolov8m-seg.pt format=onnx  simplify dynamic


# export onnx model with constant shapes
yolo export model=yolov8m.pt format=onnx  simplify
yolo export model=yolov8m-cls.pt format=onnx  simplify
yolo export model=yolov8m-pose.pt format=onnx  simplify
yolo export model=yolov8m-seg.pt format=onnx  simplify
```

### 2. Run Inference

It will perform inference with the ONNX model on the source image.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--cuda` to use CUDA execution provider to speed up inference.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--trt` to use TensorRT execution provider, and you can set `--fp16` at the same time to use TensorRT FP16 engine.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --trt --fp16 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--device_id` to select which device to run. When you have only one GPU, and you set `device_id` to 1 will not cause program panic, the `ort` would automatically fall back to `CPU` EP.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --device_id 0 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--batch` to do multi-batch-size inference.

If you're using `--trt`, you can also set `--batch-min` and `--batch-max` to explicitly specify min/max/opt batch for dynamic batch input.(https://onnxruntime.ai/docs/execution-providers/TensorRT-ExecutionProvider.html#explicit-shape-range-for-dynamic-shape-input).(Note that the ONNX model should exported with dynamic shapes)

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --batch 2 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--height` and `--width` to do dynamic image size inference. (Note that the ONNX model should exported with dynamic shapes)

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --width 480 --height 640 --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Set `--profile` to check time consumed in each stage.(Note that the model usually needs to take 1~3 times dry run to warmup. Make sure to run enough times to evaluate the result.)

```bash
cargo run --release -- --trt --fp16 --profile --model <MODEL> --source <SOURCE>
```

Results: (yolov8m.onnx, batch=1, 3 times, trt, fp16, RTX 3060Ti)

```bash
==> 0
[Model Preprocess]: 12.75788ms
[ORT H2D]: 237.118µs
[ORT Inference]: 507.895469ms
[ORT D2H]: 191.655µs
[Model Inference]: 508.34589ms
[Model Postprocess]: 1.061122ms
==> 1
[Model Preprocess]: 13.658655ms
[ORT H2D]: 209.975µs
[ORT Inference]: 5.12372ms
[ORT D2H]: 182.389µs
[Model Inference]: 5.530022ms
[Model Postprocess]: 1.04851ms
==> 2
[Model Preprocess]: 12.475332ms
[ORT H2D]: 246.127µs
[ORT Inference]: 5.048432ms
[ORT D2H]: 187.117µs
[Model Inference]: 5.493119ms
[Model Postprocess]: 1.040906ms
```

And also:

`--conf`: confidence threshold \[default: 0.3\]

`--iou`: iou threshold in NMS \[default: 0.45\]

`--kconf`: confidence threshold of keypoint \[default: 0.55\]

`--plot`: plot inference result with random RGB color and save

you can check out all CLI arguments by:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics
cd ultralytics/examples/YOLOv8-ONNXRuntime-Rust
cargo run --release -- --help
```

## Examples

![Ultralytics YOLO Tasks](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ultralytics/assets/main/im/banner-tasks.png)

### Classification

Running dynamic shape ONNX model on `CPU` with image size `--height 224 --width 224`. Saving plotted image in `runs` directory.

```bash
cargo run --release -- --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-cls-dyn.onnx --source ../assets/images/dog.jpg --height 224 --width 224 --plot --profile
```

You will see result like:

```bash
Summary:
> Task: Classify (Ultralytics 8.0.217)
> EP: Cpu
> Dtype: Float32
> Batch: 1 (Dynamic), Height: 224 (Dynamic), Width: 224 (Dynamic)
> nc: 1000 nk: 0, nm: 0, conf: 0.3, kconf: 0.55, iou: 0.45

[Model Preprocess]: 16.363477ms
[ORT H2D]: 50.722µs
[ORT Inference]: 16.295808ms
[ORT D2H]: 8.37µs
[Model Inference]: 16.367046ms
[Model Postprocess]: 3.527µs
[
    YOLOResult {
        Probs(top5): Some([(208, 0.6950566), (209, 0.13823675), (178, 0.04849795), (215, 0.019029364), (212, 0.016506357)]),
        Bboxes: None,
        Keypoints: None,
        Masks: None,
    },
]
```

### Object Detection

Using `CUDA` EP and dynamic image size `--height 640 --width 480`

```bash
cargo run --release -- --cuda --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-dynamic.onnx --source ../assets/images/bus.jpg --plot --height 640 --width 480
```

### Pose Detection

using `TensorRT` EP

```bash
cargo run --release -- --trt --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-pose.onnx --source ../assets/images/bus.jpg --plot
```

### Instance Segmentation

using `TensorRT` EP and FP16 model `--fp16`

```bash
cargo run --release --  --trt --fp16 --model ../assets/weights/yolov8m-seg.onnx --source ../assets/images/0172.jpg --plot
```
