docs/en/guides/index.md, before:

---
comments: true
description: In-depth exploration of Ultralytics' YOLO. Learn about the YOLO object detection model, how to train it on custom data, multi-GPU training, exporting, predicting, deploying, and more.
keywords: Ultralytics, YOLO, Deep Learning, Object detection, PyTorch, Tutorial, Multi-GPU training, Custom data training, SAHI, Tiled Inference
---

# Comprehensive Tutorials to Ultralytics YOLO

Welcome to the Ultralytics' YOLO 🚀 Guides! Our comprehensive tutorials cover various aspects of the YOLO object detection model, ranging from training and prediction to deployment. Built on PyTorch, YOLO stands out for its exceptional speed and accuracy in real-time object detection tasks.

Whether you're a beginner or an expert in deep learning, our tutorials offer valuable insights into the implementation and optimization of YOLO for your computer vision projects. Let's dive in!

<p align="center">
  <br>
  <iframe loading="lazy" width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/96NkhsV-W1U"
    title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
  <br>
  <strong>Watch:</strong> Ultralytics YOLOv8 Guides Overview
</p>

## Guides

Here's a compilation of in-depth guides to help you master different aspects of Ultralytics YOLO.

- [YOLO Common Issues](yolo-common-issues.md) ⭐ RECOMMENDED: Practical solutions and troubleshooting tips to the most frequently encountered issues when working with Ultralytics YOLO models.
- [YOLO Performance Metrics](yolo-performance-metrics.md) ⭐ ESSENTIAL: Understand the key metrics like mAP, IoU, and F1 score used to evaluate the performance of your YOLO models. Includes practical examples and tips on how to improve detection accuracy and speed.
- [Model Deployment Options](model-deployment-options.md): Overview of YOLO model deployment formats like ONNX, OpenVINO, and TensorRT, with pros and cons for each to inform your deployment strategy.
- [K-Fold Cross Validation](kfold-cross-validation.md) 🚀 NEW: Learn how to improve model generalization using K-Fold cross-validation technique.
- [Hyperparameter Tuning](hyperparameter-tuning.md) 🚀 NEW: Discover how to optimize your YOLO models by fine-tuning hyperparameters using the Tuner class and genetic evolution algorithms.
- [SAHI Tiled Inference](sahi-tiled-inference.md) 🚀 NEW: Comprehensive guide on leveraging SAHI's sliced inference capabilities with YOLOv8 for object detection in high-resolution images.
- [AzureML Quickstart](azureml-quickstart.md) 🚀 NEW: Get up and running with Ultralytics YOLO models on Microsoft's Azure Machine Learning platform. Learn how to train, deploy, and scale your object detection projects in the cloud.
- [Conda Quickstart](conda-quickstart.md) 🚀 NEW: Step-by-step guide to setting up a [Conda](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/ultralytics) environment for Ultralytics. Learn how to install and start using the Ultralytics package efficiently with Conda.
- [Docker Quickstart](docker-quickstart.md) 🚀 NEW: Complete guide to setting up and using Ultralytics YOLO models with [Docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/ultralytics/ultralytics). Learn how to install Docker, manage GPU support, and run YOLO models in isolated containers for consistent development and deployment.
- [Raspberry Pi](raspberry-pi.md) 🚀 NEW: Quickstart tutorial to run YOLO models to the latest Raspberry Pi hardware.
- [Nvidia-Jetson](nvidia-jetson.md)🚀 NEW: Quickstart guide for deploying YOLO models on Nvidia Jetson devices.
- [Triton Inference Server Integration](triton-inference-server.md) 🚀 NEW: Dive into the integration of Ultralytics YOLOv8 with NVIDIA's Triton Inference Server for scalable and efficient deep learning inference deployments.
- [YOLO Thread-Safe Inference](yolo-thread-safe-inference.md) 🚀 NEW: Guidelines for performing inference with YOLO models in a thread-safe manner. Learn the importance of thread safety and best practices to prevent race conditions and ensure consistent predictions.
- [Isolating Segmentation Objects](isolating-segmentation-objects.md) 🚀 NEW: Step-by-step recipe and explanation on how to extract and/or isolate objects from images using Ultralytics Segmentation.
- [Edge TPU on Raspberry Pi](coral-edge-tpu-on-raspberry-pi.md): [Google Edge TPU](https://coral.ai/products/accelerator) accelerates YOLO inference on [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.com/).
- [View Inference Images in a Terminal](view-results-in-terminal.md): Use VSCode's integrated terminal to view inference results when using Remote Tunnel or SSH sessions.
- [OpenVINO Latency vs Throughput Modes](optimizing-openvino-latency-vs-throughput-modes.md) - Learn latency and throughput optimization techniques for peak YOLO inference performance.

## Real-World Projects

- [Object Counting](object-counting.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore the process of real-time object counting with Ultralytics YOLOv8 and acquire the knowledge to effectively count objects in a live video stream.
- [Object Cropping](object-cropping.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore object cropping using YOLOv8 for precise extraction of objects from images and videos.
- [Object Blurring](object-blurring.md) 🚀 NEW: Apply object blurring with YOLOv8 for privacy protection in image and video processing.
- [Workouts Monitoring](workouts-monitoring.md) 🚀 NEW: Discover the comprehensive approach to monitoring workouts with Ultralytics YOLOv8. Acquire the skills and insights necessary to effectively use YOLOv8 for tracking and analyzing various aspects of fitness routines in real time.
- [Objects Counting in Regions](region-counting.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore counting objects in specific regions with Ultralytics YOLOv8 for precise and efficient object detection in varied areas.
- [Security Alarm System](security-alarm-system.md) 🚀 NEW: Discover the process of creating a security alarm system with Ultralytics YOLOv8. This system triggers alerts upon detecting new objects in the frame. Subsequently, you can customize the code to align with your specific use case.
- [Heatmaps](heatmaps.md) 🚀 NEW: Elevate your understanding of data with our Detection Heatmaps! These intuitive visual tools use vibrant color gradients to vividly illustrate the intensity of data values across a matrix. Essential in computer vision, heatmaps are skillfully designed to highlight areas of interest, providing an immediate, impactful way to interpret spatial information.
- [Instance Segmentation with Object Tracking](instance-segmentation-and-tracking.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore our feature on [Object Segmentation](https://docs.ultralytics.com/tasks/segment/) in Bounding Boxes Shape, providing a visual representation of precise object boundaries for enhanced understanding and analysis.
- [VisionEye View Objects Mapping](vision-eye.md) 🚀 NEW: This feature aim computers to discern and focus on specific objects, much like the way the human eye observes details from a particular viewpoint.
- [Speed Estimation](speed-estimation.md) 🚀 NEW: Speed estimation in computer vision relies on analyzing object motion through techniques like [object tracking](https://docs.ultralytics.com/modes/track/), crucial for applications like autonomous vehicles and traffic monitoring.
- [Distance Calculation](distance-calculation.md) 🚀 NEW: Distance calculation, which involves measuring the separation between two objects within a defined space, is a crucial aspect. In the context of Ultralytics YOLOv8, the method employed for this involves using the bounding box centroid to determine the distance associated with user-highlighted bounding boxes.
- [Queue Management](queue-management.md) 🚀 NEW: Queue management is the practice of efficiently controlling and directing the flow of people or tasks, often through strategic planning and technology implementation, to minimize wait times and improve overall productivity.

## Contribute to Our Guides

We welcome contributions from the community! If you've mastered a particular aspect of Ultralytics YOLO that's not yet covered in our guides, we encourage you to share your expertise. Writing a guide is a great way to give back to the community and help us make our documentation more comprehensive and user-friendly.

To get started, please read our [Contributing Guide](../help/contributing.md) for guidelines on how to open up a Pull Request (PR) 🛠️. We look forward to your contributions!

Let's work together to make the Ultralytics YOLO ecosystem more robust and versatile 🙏!

Commit message:

`ultralytics 8.2.5` New 🌟 Parking Management Solution (#10385)
Co-authored-by: UltralyticsAssistant <web@ultralytics.com>
Co-authored-by: Glenn Jocher <glenn.jocher@ultralytics.com>

docs/en/guides/index.md, after:

---
comments: true
description: In-depth exploration of Ultralytics' YOLO. Learn about the YOLO object detection model, how to train it on custom data, multi-GPU training, exporting, predicting, deploying, and more.
keywords: Ultralytics, YOLO, Deep Learning, Object detection, PyTorch, Tutorial, Multi-GPU training, Custom data training, SAHI, Tiled Inference
---

# Comprehensive Tutorials to Ultralytics YOLO

Welcome to the Ultralytics' YOLO 🚀 Guides! Our comprehensive tutorials cover various aspects of the YOLO object detection model, ranging from training and prediction to deployment. Built on PyTorch, YOLO stands out for its exceptional speed and accuracy in real-time object detection tasks.

Whether you're a beginner or an expert in deep learning, our tutorials offer valuable insights into the implementation and optimization of YOLO for your computer vision projects. Let's dive in!

<p align="center">
  <br>
  <iframe loading="lazy" width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/96NkhsV-W1U"
    title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
    allowfullscreen>
  </iframe>
  <br>
  <strong>Watch:</strong> Ultralytics YOLOv8 Guides Overview
</p>

## Guides

Here's a compilation of in-depth guides to help you master different aspects of Ultralytics YOLO.

- [YOLO Common Issues](yolo-common-issues.md) ⭐ RECOMMENDED: Practical solutions and troubleshooting tips to the most frequently encountered issues when working with Ultralytics YOLO models.
- [YOLO Performance Metrics](yolo-performance-metrics.md) ⭐ ESSENTIAL: Understand the key metrics like mAP, IoU, and F1 score used to evaluate the performance of your YOLO models. Includes practical examples and tips on how to improve detection accuracy and speed.
- [Model Deployment Options](model-deployment-options.md): Overview of YOLO model deployment formats like ONNX, OpenVINO, and TensorRT, with pros and cons for each to inform your deployment strategy.
- [K-Fold Cross Validation](kfold-cross-validation.md) 🚀 NEW: Learn how to improve model generalization using K-Fold cross-validation technique.
- [Hyperparameter Tuning](hyperparameter-tuning.md) 🚀 NEW: Discover how to optimize your YOLO models by fine-tuning hyperparameters using the Tuner class and genetic evolution algorithms.
- [SAHI Tiled Inference](sahi-tiled-inference.md) 🚀 NEW: Comprehensive guide on leveraging SAHI's sliced inference capabilities with YOLOv8 for object detection in high-resolution images.
- [AzureML Quickstart](azureml-quickstart.md) 🚀 NEW: Get up and running with Ultralytics YOLO models on Microsoft's Azure Machine Learning platform. Learn how to train, deploy, and scale your object detection projects in the cloud.
- [Conda Quickstart](conda-quickstart.md) 🚀 NEW: Step-by-step guide to setting up a [Conda](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/ultralytics) environment for Ultralytics. Learn how to install and start using the Ultralytics package efficiently with Conda.
- [Docker Quickstart](docker-quickstart.md) 🚀 NEW: Complete guide to setting up and using Ultralytics YOLO models with [Docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/ultralytics/ultralytics). Learn how to install Docker, manage GPU support, and run YOLO models in isolated containers for consistent development and deployment.
- [Raspberry Pi](raspberry-pi.md) 🚀 NEW: Quickstart tutorial to run YOLO models to the latest Raspberry Pi hardware.
- [Nvidia-Jetson](nvidia-jetson.md)🚀 NEW: Quickstart guide for deploying YOLO models on Nvidia Jetson devices.
- [Triton Inference Server Integration](triton-inference-server.md) 🚀 NEW: Dive into the integration of Ultralytics YOLOv8 with NVIDIA's Triton Inference Server for scalable and efficient deep learning inference deployments.
- [YOLO Thread-Safe Inference](yolo-thread-safe-inference.md) 🚀 NEW: Guidelines for performing inference with YOLO models in a thread-safe manner. Learn the importance of thread safety and best practices to prevent race conditions and ensure consistent predictions.
- [Isolating Segmentation Objects](isolating-segmentation-objects.md) 🚀 NEW: Step-by-step recipe and explanation on how to extract and/or isolate objects from images using Ultralytics Segmentation.
- [Edge TPU on Raspberry Pi](coral-edge-tpu-on-raspberry-pi.md): [Google Edge TPU](https://coral.ai/products/accelerator) accelerates YOLO inference on [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.com/).
- [View Inference Images in a Terminal](view-results-in-terminal.md): Use VSCode's integrated terminal to view inference results when using Remote Tunnel or SSH sessions.
- [OpenVINO Latency vs Throughput Modes](optimizing-openvino-latency-vs-throughput-modes.md) - Learn latency and throughput optimization techniques for peak YOLO inference performance.

## Real-World Projects

- [Object Counting](object-counting.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore the process of real-time object counting with Ultralytics YOLOv8 and acquire the knowledge to effectively count objects in a live video stream.
- [Object Cropping](object-cropping.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore object cropping using YOLOv8 for precise extraction of objects from images and videos.
- [Object Blurring](object-blurring.md) 🚀 NEW: Apply object blurring with YOLOv8 for privacy protection in image and video processing.
- [Workouts Monitoring](workouts-monitoring.md) 🚀 NEW: Discover the comprehensive approach to monitoring workouts with Ultralytics YOLOv8. Acquire the skills and insights necessary to effectively use YOLOv8 for tracking and analyzing various aspects of fitness routines in real time.
- [Objects Counting in Regions](region-counting.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore counting objects in specific regions with Ultralytics YOLOv8 for precise and efficient object detection in varied areas.
- [Security Alarm System](security-alarm-system.md) 🚀 NEW: Discover the process of creating a security alarm system with Ultralytics YOLOv8. This system triggers alerts upon detecting new objects in the frame. Subsequently, you can customize the code to align with your specific use case.
- [Heatmaps](heatmaps.md) 🚀 NEW: Elevate your understanding of data with our Detection Heatmaps! These intuitive visual tools use vibrant color gradients to vividly illustrate the intensity of data values across a matrix. Essential in computer vision, heatmaps are skillfully designed to highlight areas of interest, providing an immediate, impactful way to interpret spatial information.
- [Instance Segmentation with Object Tracking](instance-segmentation-and-tracking.md) 🚀 NEW: Explore our feature on [Object Segmentation](https://docs.ultralytics.com/tasks/segment/) in Bounding Boxes Shape, providing a visual representation of precise object boundaries for enhanced understanding and analysis.
- [VisionEye View Objects Mapping](vision-eye.md) 🚀 NEW: This feature aim computers to discern and focus on specific objects, much like the way the human eye observes details from a particular viewpoint.
- [Speed Estimation](speed-estimation.md) 🚀 NEW: Speed estimation in computer vision relies on analyzing object motion through techniques like [object tracking](https://docs.ultralytics.com/modes/track/), crucial for applications like autonomous vehicles and traffic monitoring.
- [Distance Calculation](distance-calculation.md) 🚀 NEW: Distance calculation, which involves measuring the separation between two objects within a defined space, is a crucial aspect. In the context of Ultralytics YOLOv8, the method employed for this involves using the bounding box centroid to determine the distance associated with user-highlighted bounding boxes.
- [Queue Management](queue-management.md) 🚀 NEW: Queue management is the practice of efficiently controlling and directing the flow of people or tasks, often through strategic planning and technology implementation, to minimize wait times and improve overall productivity.
- [Parking Management](parking-management.md) 🚀 NEW: Parking management involves efficiently organizing and directing the flow of vehicles in parking areas, often through strategic planning and technology integration, to optimize space utilization and enhance user experience.

## Contribute to Our Guides

We welcome contributions from the community! If you've mastered a particular aspect of Ultralytics YOLO that's not yet covered in our guides, we encourage you to share your expertise. Writing a guide is a great way to give back to the community and help us make our documentation more comprehensive and user-friendly.

To get started, please read our [Contributing Guide](../help/contributing.md) for guidelines on how to open up a Pull Request (PR) 🛠️. We look forward to your contributions!

Let's work together to make the Ultralytics YOLO ecosystem more robust and versatile 🙏!
