docs/en/integrations/index.md, before:

---
comments: true
description: Explore Ultralytics integrations with tools for dataset management, model optimization, ML workflows automation, experiment tracking, version control, and more. Learn about our support for various model export formats for deployment.
keywords: Ultralytics integrations, Roboflow, Neural Magic, ClearML, Comet ML, DVC, Ultralytics HUB, MLFlow, Neptune, Ray Tune, TensorBoard, W&B, model export formats, PyTorch, TorchScript, ONNX, OpenVINO, TensorRT, CoreML, TF SavedModel, TF GraphDef, TF Lite, TF Edge TPU, TF.js, PaddlePaddle, NCNN
---

# Ultralytics Integrations

Welcome to the Ultralytics Integrations page! This page provides an overview of our partnerships with various tools and platforms, designed to streamline your machine learning workflows, enhance dataset management, simplify model training, and facilitate efficient deployment.

<img width="1024" src="https://github.com/ultralytics/assets/raw/main/yolov8/banner-integrations.png" alt="Ultralytics YOLO ecosystem and integrations">

## Datasets Integrations

- [Roboflow](roboflow.md): Facilitate seamless dataset management for Ultralytics models, offering robust annotation, preprocessing, and augmentation capabilities.

## Training Integrations

- [ClearML](clearml.md): Automate your Ultralytics ML workflows, monitor experiments, and foster team collaboration.

- [Comet ML](comet.md): Enhance your model development with Ultralytics by tracking, comparing, and optimizing your machine learning experiments.

- [DVC](dvc.md): Implement version control for your Ultralytics machine learning projects, synchronizing data, code, and models effectively.

- [MLFlow](mlflow.md): Streamline the entire ML lifecycle of Ultralytics models, from experimentation and reproducibility to deployment.

- [Ultralytics HUB](https://hub.ultralytics.com): Access and contribute to a community of pre-trained Ultralytics models.

- [Neptune](https://neptune.ai/): Maintain a comprehensive log of your ML experiments with Ultralytics in this metadata store designed for MLOps.

- [Ray Tune](ray-tune.md): Optimize the hyperparameters of your Ultralytics models at any scale.

- [TensorBoard](tensorboard.md): Visualize your Ultralytics ML workflows, monitor model metrics, and foster team collaboration.

- [Weights & Biases (W&B)](weights-biases.md): Monitor experiments, visualize metrics, and foster reproducibility and collaboration on Ultralytics projects.

- [Amazon SageMaker](amazon-sagemaker.md): Leverage Amazon SageMaker to efficiently build, train, and deploy Ultralytics models, providing an all-in-one platform for the ML lifecycle.

## Deployment Integrations

- [Neural Magic](neural-magic.md): Leverage Quantization Aware Training (QAT) and pruning techniques to optimize Ultralytics models for superior performance and leaner size.

- [OpenVino](openvino.md): OpenVINO is Intel's toolkit for optimizing and deploying computer vision models efficiently across various Intel hardware platforms.

### Export Formats

We also support a variety of model export formats for deployment in different environments. Here are the available formats:

| Format                                                             | `format` Argument | Model                     | Metadata | Arguments                                           |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/)                                    | -                 | `yolov8n.pt`              | ✅        | -                                                   |
| [TorchScript](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/jit.html)            | `torchscript`     | `yolov8n.torchscript`     | ✅        | `imgsz`, `optimize`                                 |
| [ONNX](https://onnx.ai/)                                           | `onnx`            | `yolov8n.onnx`            | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `dynamic`, `simplify`, `opset`     |
| [OpenVINO](openvino.md)                                            | `openvino`        | `yolov8n_openvino_model/` | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`                             |
| [TensorRT](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt)                  | `engine`          | `yolov8n.engine`          | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `dynamic`, `simplify`, `workspace` |
| [CoreML](https://github.com/apple/coremltools)                     | `coreml`          | `yolov8n.mlpackage`       | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`, `nms`                      |
| [TF SavedModel](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/saved_model)      | `saved_model`     | `yolov8n_saved_model/`    | ✅        | `imgsz`, `keras`, `int8`                            |
| [TF GraphDef](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/Graph) | `pb`              | `yolov8n.pb`              | ❌        | `imgsz`                                             |
| [TF Lite](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite)                         | `tflite`          | `yolov8n.tflite`          | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`                             |
| [TF Edge TPU](https://coral.ai/docs/edgetpu/models-intro/)         | `edgetpu`         | `yolov8n_edgetpu.tflite`  | ✅        | `imgsz`                                             |
| [TF.js](https://www.tensorflow.org/js)                             | `tfjs`            | `yolov8n_web_model/`      | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`                             |
| [PaddlePaddle](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle)                    | `paddle`          | `yolov8n_paddle_model/`   | ✅        | `imgsz`                                             |
| [NCNN](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn)                            | `ncnn`            | `yolov8n_ncnn_model/`     | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`                                     |

Explore the links to learn more about each integration and how to get the most out of them with Ultralytics.

## Contribute to Our Integrations

We're always excited to see how the community integrates Ultralytics YOLO with other technologies, tools, and platforms! If you have successfully integrated YOLO with a new system or have valuable insights to share, consider contributing to our Integrations Docs.

By writing a guide or tutorial, you can help expand our documentation and provide real-world examples that benefit the community. It's an excellent way to contribute to the growing ecosystem around Ultralytics YOLO.

To contribute, please check out our [Contributing Guide](https://docs.ultralytics.com/help/contributing) for instructions on how to submit a Pull Request (PR) 🛠️. We eagerly await your contributions!

Let's collaborate to make the Ultralytics YOLO ecosystem more expansive and feature-rich 🙏!

Commit message:

Add ONNX Docs integrations page (#7802)
Co-authored-by: Glenn Jocher <glenn.jocher@ultralytics.com>

docs/en/integrations/index.md, after:

---
comments: true
description: Explore Ultralytics integrations with tools for dataset management, model optimization, ML workflows automation, experiment tracking, version control, and more. Learn about our support for various model export formats for deployment.
keywords: Ultralytics integrations, Roboflow, Neural Magic, ClearML, Comet ML, DVC, Ultralytics HUB, MLFlow, Neptune, Ray Tune, TensorBoard, W&B, model export formats, PyTorch, TorchScript, ONNX, OpenVINO, TensorRT, CoreML, TF SavedModel, TF GraphDef, TF Lite, TF Edge TPU, TF.js, PaddlePaddle, NCNN
---

# Ultralytics Integrations

Welcome to the Ultralytics Integrations page! This page provides an overview of our partnerships with various tools and platforms, designed to streamline your machine learning workflows, enhance dataset management, simplify model training, and facilitate efficient deployment.

<img width="1024" src="https://github.com/ultralytics/assets/raw/main/yolov8/banner-integrations.png" alt="Ultralytics YOLO ecosystem and integrations">

## Datasets Integrations

- [Roboflow](roboflow.md): Facilitate seamless dataset management for Ultralytics models, offering robust annotation, preprocessing, and augmentation capabilities.

## Training Integrations

- [ClearML](clearml.md): Automate your Ultralytics ML workflows, monitor experiments, and foster team collaboration.

- [Comet ML](comet.md): Enhance your model development with Ultralytics by tracking, comparing, and optimizing your machine learning experiments.

- [DVC](dvc.md): Implement version control for your Ultralytics machine learning projects, synchronizing data, code, and models effectively.

- [MLFlow](mlflow.md): Streamline the entire ML lifecycle of Ultralytics models, from experimentation and reproducibility to deployment.

- [Ultralytics HUB](https://hub.ultralytics.com): Access and contribute to a community of pre-trained Ultralytics models.

- [Neptune](https://neptune.ai/): Maintain a comprehensive log of your ML experiments with Ultralytics in this metadata store designed for MLOps.

- [Ray Tune](ray-tune.md): Optimize the hyperparameters of your Ultralytics models at any scale.

- [TensorBoard](tensorboard.md): Visualize your Ultralytics ML workflows, monitor model metrics, and foster team collaboration.

- [Weights & Biases (W&B)](weights-biases.md): Monitor experiments, visualize metrics, and foster reproducibility and collaboration on Ultralytics projects.

- [Amazon SageMaker](amazon-sagemaker.md): Leverage Amazon SageMaker to efficiently build, train, and deploy Ultralytics models, providing an all-in-one platform for the ML lifecycle.

## Deployment Integrations

- [Neural Magic](neural-magic.md): Leverage Quantization Aware Training (QAT) and pruning techniques to optimize Ultralytics models for superior performance and leaner size.

- [OpenVINO](openvino.md): Intel's toolkit for optimizing and deploying computer vision models efficiently across various Intel CPU and GPU platforms.

- [ONNX](onnx.md): An open-source format created by [Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com) for facilitating the transfer of AI models between various frameworks, enhancing the versatility and deployment flexibility of Ultralytics models.

### Export Formats

We also support a variety of model export formats for deployment in different environments. Here are the available formats:

| Format                                                             | `format` Argument | Model                     | Metadata | Arguments                                           |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/)                                    | -                 | `yolov8n.pt`              | ✅        | -                                                   |
| [TorchScript](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/jit.html)            | `torchscript`     | `yolov8n.torchscript`     | ✅        | `imgsz`, `optimize`                                 |
| [ONNX](onnx.md)                                                    | `onnx`            | `yolov8n.onnx`            | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `dynamic`, `simplify`, `opset`     |
| [OpenVINO](openvino.md)                                            | `openvino`        | `yolov8n_openvino_model/` | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`                             |
| [TensorRT](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt)                  | `engine`          | `yolov8n.engine`          | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `dynamic`, `simplify`, `workspace` |
| [CoreML](https://github.com/apple/coremltools)                     | `coreml`          | `yolov8n.mlpackage`       | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`, `nms`                      |
| [TF SavedModel](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/saved_model)      | `saved_model`     | `yolov8n_saved_model/`    | ✅        | `imgsz`, `keras`, `int8`                            |
| [TF GraphDef](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/Graph) | `pb`              | `yolov8n.pb`              | ❌        | `imgsz`                                             |
| [TF Lite](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite)                         | `tflite`          | `yolov8n.tflite`          | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`                             |
| [TF Edge TPU](https://coral.ai/docs/edgetpu/models-intro/)         | `edgetpu`         | `yolov8n_edgetpu.tflite`  | ✅        | `imgsz`                                             |
| [TF.js](https://www.tensorflow.org/js)                             | `tfjs`            | `yolov8n_web_model/`      | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`, `int8`                             |
| [PaddlePaddle](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle)                    | `paddle`          | `yolov8n_paddle_model/`   | ✅        | `imgsz`                                             |
| [NCNN](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn)                            | `ncnn`            | `yolov8n_ncnn_model/`     | ✅        | `imgsz`, `half`                                     |

Explore the links to learn more about each integration and how to get the most out of them with Ultralytics.

## Contribute to Our Integrations

We're always excited to see how the community integrates Ultralytics YOLO with other technologies, tools, and platforms! If you have successfully integrated YOLO with a new system or have valuable insights to share, consider contributing to our Integrations Docs.

By writing a guide or tutorial, you can help expand our documentation and provide real-world examples that benefit the community. It's an excellent way to contribute to the growing ecosystem around Ultralytics YOLO.

To contribute, please check out our [Contributing Guide](https://docs.ultralytics.com/help/contributing) for instructions on how to submit a Pull Request (PR) 🛠️. We eagerly await your contributions!

Let's collaborate to make the Ultralytics YOLO ecosystem more expansive and feature-rich 🙏!
